FIXED. 117: Delete 'different' (It's redundant).

117: 'These sources consist of digital power for each type of chip _'  This confuses me! Why is it 'digital'? I would describe the front ends of the ABCs as analogue circuits. 
NOT FIXED This is I think correct as is. The TID bump applies for the digital chip power...

FIXED. Since the sentence starts 'These sources consist of _.'  Then ' the heat generated' (by the FEAST chip) is redundant.

'DC-DC conversion' - should probably read '_.converter'.
NOT FIXED No, the FEAST provide conversion, so it is the converter, but that would read badly

FIXED. 'sensor leakage currents' should probably read ' sensor leakage power'

In fact the list is incomplete since it doesn't mention the tape or RHV that appear in figure 5.
NOT FIXED I don't know which line this refers to, I can't find any mistake

FIXED. Section 4.  line 161. ' _.with other nodes having between 5 and 20  C/W.)'    I would drop the construct using the word 'having'  and simply say '_.and other nodes between 5 and 20 C/W'.

FIXED - SWITCHED TO PARAMETRIZATION. (harmonize with Georg). Various places 'parameterization'.  This is the American spelling - so I guess it's fine! It made be jump because I would personally write 'parametrisation" (dropping an 'e' and using 's' instead of 'z'). No action needed I guess!!

Section 5.0.2 line 205: 'The TID bump is assumed to fully apply to the HCC digital current, and apply to 69% of the ABC digital current_'.   This is news to me! In the past I have scaled ALL of the ABC digital current.  Probably I am not up to date with the wisdom of Paul Keener?  Please just confirm that what's written is correct. I would also be interested to know where I can learn about the 69%, for purposes of FEA work over Xmas!.
NOT FIXED Yes, this is correct. In the internal report I wrote: "The TID bump appears to be related to the amount of memory blocks on the chip. To account for the different chip configurations we specify a fraction of digital current which will be bumped according to the parametrization discussed in section 2.2 for each chip. "

NOT FIXED (Oxford English Dictionary thinks this is fine). Line 212 'In both systems the dose rate varies significantly_'.  Personally I'd replace 'significantly' (what does it signify?) by 'appreciably' or some similar word.

FIXED. Line 215  'The experimental data exhibits_'   should be (I think, plural vs singular) 'The experimental data exhibit_'

Line 226 'This probably constitutes the largest source of unknown error in our model.'    Sounds a bit odd (are we into known unknowns vs unknown unknowns here?  Why not just '_the largest source of uncertainty in our model'?
NOT FIXED Yes, I am aware of the reference. But it is actually correct. There are other errors we do know (or at least think we know) so that we can attribute a safety factor on these. For this we cannot meaningfully estimate an error.

FIXED. Subsection 5.0.3 Title 'Radiation-dependent leakage current'.  I think you should include the word 'sensor' here or maybe in the next line, so that the reader understands more immediately what we are talking about.

CHANGED TO HL-LHC. Section 7.1  Are you happy to refer to the 'LHC' rather than the 'sLHC'?   Maybe it's fine, but I stalled here because when people talk about LHC performance I immediately think they're referring to the existing LHC and how well it's doing. But if you don't like the 's' I'm OK with it.

Section 7.2 line 277 ' Each safety factor has been estimated ___, and from available data or the absence of such data'    Errrmmmm. Do you really want to say that?  (How can you estimate anything from the absence of data????)  This actually made me laugh! (thank you!).
NOT FIXED Great that you appreciate my subtle phrasing. Again, I think it describes the reality well, some of the things we have estimated by assigning an error to something where we do not have data (for example we do not have the final chips yet, so we are not fully sure about their power consumption). 

FIXED. Table 1: Safety factors.  'Local support build tolerances_'.   Does the reader know what a 'Local support' is?  I couldn't recall it being mentioned, at least not recently, in the text.

REWORKED FIG. 15. I think that's all the trivial stuff I picked up on.  I didn't spend much time on Figure 15 (which I didn't immediately understand - but I ran out of time and energy!).

(REWORKED BY G&G) In Section 8,  I am worried about the paragraph 'To verify the level of this agreement_.. ' 
I guess that this concern was expressed before we clarified this section

(REWORKED BY G&G) Line 330 claims that 'the network model predicts runaway within 1C of the result from the FEA.'.  The curve that I sent (Georg) showed good agreement for the stand-alone projection using RC and RT as found from the FEA. The TE model (when I checked for the LoS PDR, which is the only direct comparison I have so far) was from memory 3C pessimistic: I put that down to the fact that the fitted coefficients used in the TE model are systematically higher than I get directly from the FEA. 
Same here


Starting from the beginning and reading slowly, to look for typos:

FIXED. 48 '...glued onto both sides of a composite sandwich...'.   Add  '(local support)' in here, since it is referred to in Figure 1.

IMPLEMENTED SOMETHING SIMILAR. 55 'underneath the EOS card, the thermal path is degraded by ....electrically-insulating ceramic pipe sections'. 'EoS card' here is wrong: this statement should e.g. be moved after the following sentence and refer to the EoS 'module'.

FIXED. 57 'refered' needs two 'r's?  If this is a US spelling then let it be (and similar instances, as long as we are consistent).

FIXED. 58 'lenth' should be 'length'.  (definitely transatlantic!!!)

FIXED. 68 '...are modelled'  should be '...is modelled'   (I think!)

FIXED. 83/84 'The LV current ( 11 V)...'  is a poor juxtaposition of units! Should be e.g. ' The LV current (supplied at 11 V)...' (or similar).

FIXED. 98/99  '...a slightly lower voltage is supplied to module on one end if the substructure (furthest from the EoS card)'.  I think this reads badly. Why not say '...there is a slight reduction in voltage supplied to successive modules along the substructure'.  ???
