
Reviewer #1: The article is well written, clear and relevant. The only major comment regarding the content is that the relevance of the work could be enhanced substantially by showing the impact of this methodology against more traditional approaches (i.e. computing the cooling power needed for the worst case everywhere). There are three specific points where I feel this should be highlighted:
- Line 133: it would be interesting to compare the results of the model presented here with those of [5] for the same objects, to highlight the significance of the presented method

> The difference between the approach taken in [5] and the current approach is simply that we use numerical methods to solve the equations instead of analytically solving them. Regardless of whether an equation is solved numerically or analytically, the result should be the same. We have added the following sentence: "We do not expect the numerical method to introduce a loss of precision on the scale of the model approximations."

- Line 218-219: to understand the relevance of this optimised model, it would be useful to add a comparison of the maximal power drawn according to this model that takes in to account the different peaking times of the TID bumps with the maximum power that would be computed with a more traditional "sum of worst cases" approach.

> We agree, and we think it's best to mention specific details in Section 7.4 (around line 317). Thus, we have added the following to line 219: "... as each chip reaches its maximum at a different point in time (see Section 7.4)."

- Line 317: "ignoring this time dependence could lead to over-specification". Again: it would be good to know if it actually would lead to over-specification. The reader could be presented with some evidence, such as the power that would be needed in a non-time-optimized design.

> We add the following example to L317: "Again, the different timescales of the various radiation-induced effects are visible; ignoring this time dependence could lead to over-specification of some system aspects. Taking Fig. 13b as an example, the average module power (indicated by the thick black line) is 6.6 W in the beginning of operation and reaches 8.0 W at the TID bump, in the second year. If we naively summed the maxima of the TID bumps, neglecting time dependence, we would arrive at 8.6 W, overestimating the power at the TID bump by 7.5% and overestimating the effect of the TID bump by 43%. The difference, multiplied in the endcap by 4608 modules, amounts to nearly 3 kW of power and impacts the specifications of e.g. the cooling system."

Other considerations:

Section 1.1 is clear, but possibly too detailed for the scope of this article. I would suggest to remove all details and features that are not also represented in Figure 4

> We would prefer to keep many of these details, in order to provide context for e.g. the thermal impedances presented in Figure 6, and the FEA results presented in Figure 15. However we have re-worked the text in order to improve the flow. To improve the section, have removed certain details that are repeated in Section 2 ("The electrical model"), defined the barrel stave, and introduced short-strip and long-strip modules in Section 1.1.

Line 55: "stave" should be defined

> In the reshuffling of Section 1.1, this is now defined: "In the barrel, the local support is called a stave, ..."

Figure 5: Please correct "Tape" into "Tape bus" to match the text

> Fixed - thanks!

Line 105: It looks strange that the voltage drop is relevant in the endcap and negligible in the barrel. Adding the corresponding <DELTA>V would help clarify.

> Reworded, adding the values from the endcap: "The treatment of this effect is slightly different in the barrel and endcap models: in the barrel, the
voltage delivered to every module is averaged to 10.5~V; in the endcap, the $\Delta V$ is estimated based on the calculated expected power loss along the
tape for each module and varies between 10.8 and 11~V. In both the barrel and endcap systems, the impact of using a different treatment is small."

Line 118: the footnote 2, although interesting, is possibly out of place here and I would suggest removing it

> We would prefer to keep this footnote, to emphasize the similarity between the electrical and thermal networks. We have added a sentence to the beginning of the footnote to emphasize why it is relevant to our discussion: "The similarity of the electrical and thermal networks we are using in our approach has been exploited before: historically, ..."

Line 120: for clarity of language I would replace "These sources consist of the" with a colon(:).

> We implemented your suggestion.

Lines 134-135, and further on on lines 262-262: Is there a specific reason why two different pieces of software (and languages) were used to model the barrel and end-cap? If so the reason would be of interest for the reader, otherwise I would suggest to remove this detail (distracting).

> We have changed L134 to the following: "However, the set of equations is still sufficiently small to solve numerically using any modern mathematical software." We have removed the reference to software on L262.

Line 156: Please add to the text a figure for the "level of disagreement" here (±20%, if I well understood the picture), otherwise this piece of information is only available in Figure 6.

> The uncertainties are discussed below this line, separately for the barrel (10%) and endcap (20%). To hopefully clarify this, we have changed the text in L156 to read "... and the level of disagreement, discussed below, is taken as an uncertainty ...".

Footnote 3 page 6: a reference to "our subsequent studies" would be appropriate here.

> There is no reference, as this was never published. We have reworded the footnote: "In Ref. [5] the analytic model parameters were extracted from the maximum sensor temperature predicted by FEA. Further comparisons we did after the publication of that paper indicated that the thermal stability limit is predicted more accurately if the average sensor temperature is used."

Line 210: it is not totally clear where does 69% comes from. I would assume that the digital circuit, as understood by the authors, has 69% of its initial current drawn by a circuit suffering from TID bump and that the rest of the current, instead stays stable. A more detailed sentence might help here.

> We removed the parenthetical text and added a footnote at the end of the sentence: "The primary source of the additional digital current is leakage in a certain type of transistor on the chip, which is only used in parts of the ABC. We have introduced the fraction factor described in the text to allow flexibility to scale this leakage current for different chip designs."

Line 232: Is the bump described here by a phenomenological model, or is there some kind of modelling of the underlying mechanism? Clarifying this would help understanding the extrapolation potential of this model.

> We have included a sentence in the first paragraph of this section: "The data was fitted using a 5-parameter model which was guided by assumptions on the underlying damage mechanisms, although the fit function had to be adjusted to achieve a satisfactory match to the data. The result of this parametrization, which is depicted in Fig 8, ...."

Line 273: A reference to the source of the HL-LHC luminosity profile would be good here.

> We have added the citation for the HL-LHC Technical Design Report.

Line 274: "cooling profiles with temperatures as low as" -> is this referred to the coolant temperature?

> We suggest the following change to improve clarity: "For the cooling, which can be adjusted during data taking using detector control systems, we studied flat (constant) coolant temperature profiles ranging from from 0C to -35C, the lowest evaporation temperature achievable with the ITk evaporative CO2 cooling system. We also studied a 'ramp' scenario in which the coolant temperature starts at 0C and is gradually lowered down to -35C over the course of 10 years (Fig. 9b)."

Line 289: "The analytical model" -> it is unclear which model this refers to. The one in reference [5] or the one presented in this work?

> Changed to: "The analytical model presented here ..."

Line 308: It is not clear why in these comparisons both the year and the temperature of run-away change. I would naively think that keeping a fixed coolant temperature would lead to runaway at a time that varies with the size of the safety factor and vice-versa the runaway would happen in a given year at a coolant temperature that depends on the safety factor. The results presented here have both varying years and coolant temperatures, which is difficult to compare. Please provide results at fixed time or coolant temperature, or (if that is not possible), add an explanation of the different year in the comparison.

> The text seems to have caused confusion, so we have reworded it: "To find the cooling temperature $T_\text{C}$ at which this condition is reached, we make repeated simulations of the ITk strip system using the thermo-electrical model, with each simulation representing the full 14-year operation of the ITk at a fixed $T_\text{C}$. Between simulations, $T_\text{C}$ is increased in steps of 5$^\circ$C until the model finds thermal runaway." (Therefore, runaway occurs in a given simuation that has a fixed Tc, at some point during the 14-year lifetime of the detector, and this is what we are referencing when we quote the Tc and the year of runaway.) Please let us know if further clarification is required.

Line 323: If I understood correctly the timing of the TID bump can be tuned by modifying the running temperature, in a way that decouples the bumps seen in different regions of the detector. If this is the case, it would be good to mention it explicitly here (and possibly in the conclusions in line 366).

> We agree that the cooling profile optimization needs more explanation, so we have added the following text: "In this scenario, depicted in Fig. 14, the cooling temperature begins at a relatively high value ($0^\circ$~C) to minimize the impact of the TID bump in the first two years of operation, thus avoiding a peak in the module power (see Fig. 14a). In subsequent years, $T_C$ is steadily decreased to maintain a sensor current at or below about 1~mA, as illustrated in Fig. 14b, in the interest of both minimizing the module power and avoiding thermal runaway."

As to your suggestion that the timing of the TID bump can be tuned by modifying the running temperature, this could in principle work. However, all of the modules in the ITk strip and endcap systems are cooled using a common cooling system, and different regions of the detector cannot be maintained at different cooling temperatures. (This is typical of most silicon detectors.) Therefore there is limited flexibility to offset the timing of the TID bumps as you suggest.

Line 344: I would avoid "former" and "latter", as they refer to a long sentence. I suggest using T_0=... and R_T=...

> Fixed as suggested.


Reviewer #2: This article describes a method which can be used to simulate the thermal behaviour of a silicon tracking detector. Compared to a full FEA simulation it uses a very simple representation of the system which can be solved rapidly. This enables the authors to simulate quickly variations of the system parameters and in particular the development of the thermal behaviour of the system with operation time (and therefore irradiation). The achievement lies in the careful determination of the parameters of the simplified model and in the verification of the model through a comparison with full FEA simulations. A verification by measurements on a real representation of the system is, however, missing. Thermal runaway is a particular danger to a silicon tracking detector, caused by the exponential dependence of the radiation induced leakage current on the temperature. The simplified model is used by the authors to evaluate the bounds of safe operation of the ATLAS Phase
II silicon tracker, considering several sources of systematic uncertainties and performing the simulation for many different locations in the tracking system. This is an important input to the design optimization of such a tracking system and a necessary requirement to sign off the final design. With full FEA simulations the effort to achieve similar results would very likely be prohibitive.

The method described in this article is certainly of general interest for anyone who is involved in the design of silicon tracking systems. Beyond the description of the method the article reports about the application of the method to a complex real detector system which serves well to illustrate various aspects. Therefore, I think that it would be useful to publish this article.

Some minor corrections need to be implemented, as listed below. There is one systematic issue which is confusing to the reader and requires re-wording in many places (and figures): The DC-DC ASIC is called either FEAST or bPOL12V in different parts of the article. But these are in fact two different ASICs. It should be clarified which of the two is being used in this system and that name should be used throughout the article.

> We agree. We now use the term FEAST throughout the text and figures. We have added two footnotes, one in Section 2 and one in Section 4, regarding the bPOL12V:
Section 2 footnote: "In the final version of the ITk strip system the FEAST chip is meant to be replaced by a chip with similar functionality and behaviour, called the bPOL12V chip; we use the term FEAST throughout this paper."
Section 5 footnote: "Because of the nearly identical functionality and behaviour expected of the bPOL12V chip that will replace the FEAST in the final version of the ITk strip system, the FEAST data and the resulting fit shown here is expected to accurately reflect the bPOL12V case."

Line 32: FEA should be spelled out once.

> Introduced in L32: "...can be predicted using finite element analysis (FEA)..."

Line 89: The LDO regulator seems to be called "linPOL12V" in Fig. 4 while the text says "(labelled bPOL12)".

> It should read "labelled linPOL12V" as you say -- fixed. (Also switched to the British spelling of the word "labelled".)

Line 90: "short-strip and long-strip modules" have not been introduced before. 

> In the reshuffling of Section 1.1 (see a comment addressed from Reviewer #1), this is now defined: "Two types of module are used in the barrel: modules with 'short-strip' sensors of length 24.1~mm, and 'long-strip' sensor modules with 48.2~mm strip lengths. Short-strip modules are used in the two innermost barrel layers, and long-strip modules in the two outermost barrel layers, mainly for hit occupancy considerations."

Line 94: The acronym GBLD is described wrongly as "Gigabit Tran-Impedance Amplifier".

> This is a typo - it should read "Gigabit Laser Driver". Fixed.

Line 96: "... and an additional LDO regulator brings ..." In Fig. 4 this component ist labelled "DCDC2". Please clarify if this is an LDO or a DC-DC converter.

> Fixed: "... and an additional DC-DC converter ('DCDC2') brings..."

Line 110: "bias voltage" instead of "voltage bias" would be a more common wording (similarly in line 106).

> Fixed in both instances - thank you.

Line 160: "The thermal impedance from the _sensor_ to the sink (R_{CM}) ..." R_{CM} is the resistance between cooling and the module node ("T_{mod}" in Fig.5). The impedance to the sensor should include R_S. Therefore it seems that "sensor" needs to be replaced by something else in this sentence.

> We noticed that we have not correctly explained how the sensor impedance is treated in the model, so we have added the following lines just after Eq. 2, to better explain it: "The expression includes an impedance term Rcm == Rc + Rm, the common thermal pathway shared by the components. We omit the sensor thermal impedance in the definition of Rcm because its contribution is negligible (roughly 0.02~C/W)."

Line 177: This section describes three temperature dependent effects (5.1, 5.2, 5.3), not two.

> You are right - we mention three elements now, including the sensor leakage current.

Fig. 7, caption: Besides the ASIC (bPOL12V or FEAST, which one is it?) the efficiency depends on the resistance of the main inductor of the converter. It would be helpful if the type of inductor was specified (inductance and resistance).

> As stated in an earlier comment, we now refer to the asic as the FEAST throughout the paper. We have added the inductor detail in the text:
"The DC-DC converter, which features an air-core inductor and is controlled by the FEAST chip, ..." and we have added a reference to the
DC-DC converter data sheet for those who want more details: "Development of DCDC converters @ CERN. URL https://project-dcdc.web.cern.ch/project-dcdc/".

Fig. 8, caption:  "...presented as a function of time." Presumably this means time at the indicated dose rate.  This could be stated explicitly.

> We have attempted to make this figure more clear. One unstated but important detail of the plot is the relationship between the time on the x-axis and the total ionizing dose. We have attempted to clarify this in the plot and the caption - see below:

"Parameterization of the impact of ionizing radiation on the magnitude of the front-end chip digital current (the TID bump), presented as a function of time elapsed during detector operation. The current is multiplied by a scale factor that is modeled as a function of total ionizing dose, dose rate, and temperature, using a fit to experimental data. The figure presents four scenarios using two different chip temperatures and dose rates. The relationship between time and total ionizing dose is calculated assuming the detector operates for 180 days per year, 7.2 hours per day. The time that it takes to reach 1 MRad of total ionizing radiation is indicated on the figure for both dose rates."


Line 263: Could you add a comparison or at least a coarse estimation how long this analysis would have taken if full FEA simulations had to be used.

>  We have added the following statement to Section 6 ("Running the model"): "The calculation for a set of operating conditions over the full lifetime of the LHC, in steps of one month, takes between 5 and 10 minutes on a standard PC. The results represent the equivalent of simulating 1152 barrel modules and 5184 endcap modules, if the same time granularity would be required\footnote{Recall from Section 4 that the thermo-electrical model requires 24 barrel module FEA simulations and 3 endcap petal FEA simulations to extract the thermal impedances, but this procedure is only performed once.}. For comparison, the processing time for a single steady-state FEA simulation of an endcap petal is about 20 minutes (not taking into account the time needed to set the parameters of the simulation). Thus, the thermo-electrical model enables a quick turn-around for systematic studies of the parameter space that would not be possible using FEA alone."

For additional context, we added the following lines to Section 4 ("Obtaining thermal impedances using FEA") to report how many FEA runs are required to obtain the thermal impedances: "For the barrel, this procedure is performed for both an EOS module and a normal module, for short-strip and long-strip module types and for 6 different heat sources (24 module FEA simulations in total)." Also in that section: "For the endcap, the procedure to determine the thermal impedances for each of the 6 module types used simulations of an endcap petal with 3 different heat sources (requiring 3 FEA simulations of a full petal)." 

Line 380: "...si bulk.." should probably read Si bulk

> Fixed - thank you.

Other typos that we fixed:
 - 'PTAT' means 'proportional to absolute temperature' (not 'Point To...') - this has been fixed.
